---
title: CSC services for EC-Earth
author: Juha Lento
presentation-date: 2021-06-09
titleslide: true
---

## Puhti

Puhti is CSC's general purpose computing cluster for jobs ranging from one to
few hundreds of CPU cores, or GPUs.

Puhti is currently used for running EC-Earth and CMIP6 experiments.


## Mahti

Mahti is CSC's computing cluster for large parallel jobs, ranging from hundred
to tens of thousands of CPU cores. It also has a sizable GPU partition.

Mahti could well be used for running EC-Earth, too. If someone would like to
try, let me know!


## Allas

Allas is CSC's server for projects' life-time data storage and for data sharing.
Data is accessible through https.

This would be the obvious solution for sharing CMIP6 data, if there would not
already be another specialized infra (ESGF) for that.


## Pouta, Rahti, Kaivos

If you need to run a web service or otherwise need a separate (virtual) server,
CSC offers

- Pouta https://docs.csc.fi/cloud/pouta/
  cloud platform and
- Rahti https://rahti.csc.fi container cloud platform.

If you need a database accessible from CSC's machines, we have Kaivos.


## ESGF Data node

INAR and FMI participate in the CMIP6 experiment. The results are published via
ESGF Data node `esgf-data.csc.fi`, a special service hosted by CSC.

https://esg-dn1.nsc.liu.se/search/cmip6-liu/

Risto Makkonen (UH), Mikko Aalto (FMI), Arto Aniluoto (CSC).


## Lumi

Lumi is the new supercomputer for european research hosted by CSC. It is mainly
a huge GPU cluster, with sizable CPU partition and different storage servers for
pre- and post-processing data.


## Support

Both INAR and FMI have agreements with CSC for dedicated (on-site) support on
top of the regular user support.

- UH and FMI Slack channels *computing_discussion* and *fmi-computing* 
- [juha.lento@csc.fi](mailto:juha.lento@csc.fi)
- [servicedesk@csc.fi](mailto:servicedesk@csc.fi)
